docs(weekly): add this week in databend 114 (#13187)
datafuselabs/databend: website/blog/2023-10-08-databend-weekly-114.md

---
title: "This Week in Databend #114"
date: 2023-10-08
slug: 2023-10-08-databend-weekly
cover_url: 'weekly/weekly-114.jpg'
image: 'weekly/weekly-114.jpg'
tags: [weekly]
description: "Stay up to date with the latest weekly developments on Databend!"
contributors:
  - name: andylokandy
  - name: ariesdevil
  - name: b41sh
  - name: BohuTang
  - name: dantengsky
  - name: dependabot[bot]
  - name: Dousir9
  - name: drmingdrmer
  - name: everpcpc
  - name: flaneur2020
  - name: JackTan25
  - name: PsiACE
  - name: RinChanNOWWW
  - name: SkyFan2002
  - name: soyeric128
  - name: sundy-li
  - name: TCeason
  - name: xudong963
  - name: youngsofun
  - name: zenus
  - name: zhyass
authors:
  - name: PsiACE
    url: https://github.com/psiace
    image_url: https://github.com/psiace.png
---

[Databend](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend) is a modern cloud data warehouse, serving your massive-scale analytics needs at low cost and complexity. Open source alternative to Snowflake. Also available in the cloud: <https://app.databend.com> .

## What's On In Databend

Stay connected with the latest news about Databend.

### MERGE

> The `MERGE` statement will perform `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE` operations on rows within a target table, all in accordance with conditions and matching criteria specified within the statement, using data from a specified source.

Reviewer: will perform -> performs

![](https://databend.rs/assets/images/merge-into-multi-clause-a0013edb335b7f6c45f9b338a68c50c8.jpeg)

```SQL
-- Merge data into 'salaries' based on employee details from 'employees'
MERGE INTO salaries
USING (SELECT * FROM employees)
ON salaries.employee_id = employees.employee_id
WHEN MATCHED AND employees.department = 'HR' THEN
    UPDATE SET
        salaries.salary = salaries.salary + 1000.00
WHEN MATCHED THEN
    UPDATE SET
        salaries.salary = salaries.salary + 500.00
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN
    INSERT (employee_id, salary)
    VALUES (employees.employee_id, 55000.00);
```

> `MERGE` is currently in an experimental state. Before using the `MERGE` command, you need to run `SET enable_experimental_merge_into = 1;` to enable the feature.

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources below:

- [Docs | MERGE](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-commands/dml/dml-merge)

## Code Corner

Discover some fascinating code snippets or projects that showcase our work or learning journey.

### Introducing `DATABEND_DATA_PATH` to Python Binding and Local Mode

> Databend's Local mode now allows users to control the storage location of metadata and data files by setting the `DATABEND_DATA_PATH` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Databend's local mode now allows users to control the storage location of metadata and data files by setting the `DATABEND_DATA_PATH` environment variable.
```

```shell
DATABEND_DATA_PATH=/tmp/data/ databend-query local -q "create table abc(a int); insert into abc values(3);"
```

> The Python Binding of Databend also follows the `DATABEND_DATA_PATH` variable, but it must be defined before using `databend`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DATABEND_DATA_PATH` also works with Databend Python Binding, but it must be defined before using `databend`.
```

```python
import os

os.environ["DATABEND_DATA_PATH"] = "/tmp/def/"

from databend import SessionContext
```

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources below:

- [PR #13089 | feat: support DATABEND_DATA_PATH in bendpy and databend-local](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend/pull/13089)

## Highlights

We have also made these improvements to Databend that we hope you will find helpful:

- Improved Hash Join, resulting in a 10% performance improvement in certain scenarios.

> - Enhanced parallel execution of MERGE INTO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enhanced distributed execution of MERGE.
```

- Improved CI by using `quickinstall` to install relevant binary tools and executing unit tests with `nextest`.

## What's Up Next

We're always open to cutting-edge technologies and innovative ideas. You're more than welcome to join the community and bring them to Databend.

> ### Delete files When Dropping Internal Stage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Delete Files When Dropping Internal Stage
```

> In Databend, an Internal Stage stores data files within the storage backend specified in `databend-query.toml`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Databend, an Internal Stage stores data files in the storage backend specified in `databend-query.toml`. 
```

> Considering that users will not be able to access the staged data files after dropping the Internal Stage, it is necessary to consider removing the staged files when dropping the Internal Stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Considering that users will not be able to access the staged files after dropping an Internal Stage, it is necessary to remove the staged files when dropping the Internal Stage.
```
